**Small scale purification**
<br />
<br /> 30 ml of cells after induction were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in 400 µl buffer (25 mM HEPES, 300 mM NaCl, 10 mM imidazole, pH 7.5). The suspension was sonicated for 2 minutes (45% ampl, 6s On, 3s Off) and the lysate was centrifuged for 30 minutes in a table centrifuge at 13.6 rpm. Proteins were purified using Thermo Scientific™ HisPur™ Ni-NTA Spin Columns according to manufacturer's instructions (wash buffer: 25 mM HEPES, 300 mM NaCl, 20 mM imidazole, pH 7.5; elution buffer: 25 mM HEPES, 300 mM NaCl, 300 mM I imidazole, pH 7.5). Eluted protein solutions were dialyzed using Thermo Scientific™ Slide-A-Lyzer™ MINI Dialysis Device, 7K and 10K MWCO, 0.1 mL (25 mM HEPES, 100 mM NaCl, 50% glycerol, 2 mM dithiothreitol, pH 7.5). Protein concentrations were measured spectrophotometrically (NanoDrop 1000) and target protein fractions in the samples were evaluated densitometrically from the gel using ImageJ program. 
<br />
<br />**Large scale purification**
<br />
<br /> Cells after induction were collected by centrifugation and resuspended in 5 ml of buffer per 1g of dry cells (20 mM Tris-HCl, 500 mM NaCl, 10 mM imidazole, pH 8). The suspension was sonicated for 1 minute for every 1 g oc cells (45% ampl, 6s On, 3s Off) and lysate was centrifuged for 60 minutes at 13.6 rpm. Proteins were subjected for Ni ions affinity chromatography on Cytiva 1 ml Histrap FF column. The column was washed with 15 ml of wash buffer (20 mM Tris-HCl, 500 mM NaCl, 20 mM imidazole, 5 mM 2-Mercaptoethanol, pH 8) and eluted with buffer gradient 3%-100% over 10 ml (elution buffer: 20 mM Tris-HCl, 500 mM NaCl, 500 mM imidazole, 5 mM 2-Mercaptoethanol, pH 8). Eluted protein solutions were dialyzed using 10k MWCO dialysis membrane against dialysis buffer with of without glycerol (25 mM HEPES, 100 mM NaCl, 50% glycerol, 2 mM dithiothreitol, pH 7.5). Protein concentrations were measured spectrophotometrically (NanoDrop 1000) and target protein fractions in the samples were evaluated densitometrically from the gel using ImageJ program.
